in the last couple of hours the Northern
Ireland executive announced that schools
in Northern Ireland will close to pupils
from Monday in line with school closures
across the UK but first an
acknowledgment from both Shane fain and
the DUP that the response to the virus
would be apolitical Michelle and I come
from very different political
backgrounds but circumstances are very
similar we are mothers daughters and
sisters trying to do the right thing as
politicians today we have agreed that
all schools will close to pupils from
Monday the 23rd of March acting together
standing together government West
community I know that we can come
through this across the border in the
Republic of Ireland schools have been
closed for almost a week
crow Park Dublin Ireland's biggest
stadium but much more a nation's
Cathedral of sporting culture now
transformed into a by appointment
Drive Thru coronavirus testing facility
the ultimate embodiment of the severity
of the crisis and the resolve of the
response as of this morning the total
number of coronavirus cases in the
Republic of Ireland was 292 there have
been two deaths
yesterday was Saint Patrick's Day the
thishe occurred rest the nation suddenly
Briggs hurt the Irish general election
felt like issues from a bygone age this
is the calm before the storm before the
surge and when it comes and it will come
never will so many ask so much of so few
yes through the Irish Cabell had signed
off a number of emergency measures
involving the policing of the country's
lockdown in Northern Ireland 68 people
have tested positive a rise of 10 since
Monday in the last few hours with
schools closing across the UK as well as
in the Republic of Ireland the approach
to tackling the virus across the island
of Ireland is starting to consolidate
the number of people dying from
coronavirus in Italy has risen by 475 in
one day to nearly 3,000 the biggest
increase since the outbreak there are
now more than 35,000 cases there the
head of the World Health Organization
says many countries are overwhelmed but
there is positive news from China where
only one new case was recorded in Wuhan
where the virus began people in Spain
might be enforced isolation but that
hasn't stopped them protesting today
banging pots and pans from their
balconies demanding their king donates
the millions of euros he's reportedly
received from Saudi Arabia to the
Spanish healthcare system 588 people
have died in Spain including 17 elderly
residents at one care home but that
number is dwarfed by the number of
deaths in Italy the center of the
outbreak where more than 3,000 have died
across Europe more than 250 million
people have been told not to leave their
homes Belgium and Germany joining France
Spain and Italy in closing schools and
all non-essential shops elsewhere in the
world Somalia has closed all schools
after recording their first case
this week as has Iraq with soldiers
patrolling the streets of Baghdad urging
people to stay home
it has reported a hundred and fifty-four
confirmed cases with eleven deaths
although no new cases have been reported
across Syria a relief group operating in
rebel-held areas is training volunteers
and paramedics in case the pandemic
spreads to northwestern Syria all of
these are emergency measures in
preparation for any case or the
declaration of a state of emergency in
areas of Northwest Syria Headley and
Aleppo the training includes sessions
such as how to deal with suspected cases
people infected with the new corona
virus on how to use medical equipment
and in more positive news there's only
been one recorded case today from Wuhan
where the virus originated and people in
Shanghai have been out and about
enjoying life again the Dutch minister
for medical care has collapsed in
Parliament Bruno Bruins passed out
during a debate on the coronavirus
falling behind the lectern before being
helped to his feet he later tweeted that
it was due to exhaustion and he is now
feeling better
the u.s. imposed further economic
sanctions on Iran today even as the
death toll from coronavirus in the
Islamic Republic passed a thousand
Britain is hoping that Iran which has
been overwhelmed by the virus will now
release dual nationals include in the
charity work and as meanza Gauri
Ratcliffe who's been temporarily allowed
out from prison
he's our international editor Lindsey
Hilsum don't help me cook dinner dinner
for two but this family is one tentative
step closer to being three again because
of coronavirus Richard reactives wife
nazaneen-e rolled Gabriella's mother was
released on furlough from prison in
Tehran yesterday physically she was much
better than I was expecting
you know you think she's dead all the
symptoms of Crohn's virus a couple of
weeks back clearly have been getting
better but but clearly been very ill and
actually she looked fine every crisis
contains an opportunity the hope is that
Britain might provide medical
to Iran as a way of channeling money
owed for a cancelled 1970s arms deal
that could ease the past and as news
release and return think was absolutely
the same common concern and priority to
find a solution to coronavirus and to
manage the desperation and and the
impact is having in Iran in the UK and
and that commonality of problem
allows for trust to be built in other
areas allows for sort of a changing
priorities as to actually how important
getting humanitarian relief could be but
she's not the only one sixty
five-year-old dual national and new
share Sheree seen here with his wife
remains in Avene prison in danger of
contracting the disease the prominent
cleric has sherri beth i asks why people
are scared of a virus but not of god
when he felt ill he said he was cured by
drinking holy water from a shrine less
than a week after the sermon was filmed
he was dead of coronavirus in Mashhad
riot police battled the faithful furious
that shrines of be shut for health
reasons the cleric in calm says we're
not followers of global hygiene 11
protestors were later arrested but
different branches of the government are
in dispute about what to do and they
won't admit to the chaos and shortage of
medical supplies on the coronavirus we
spoke to people in an honest way do not
pay attention to the cyberspace and a
group of people who or do not know what
their intentions are
they're disinfecting the streets Iran is
short of everything to combat covered 19
partly because of US sanctions the
reporter asks weren't we meant to stay
at home because of the virus but the
drivers don't seem to care Tehran
residents are streaming out of the
capital for the New Year holidays
undoubtedly spreading the disease even
further now the Dow Jones Jones has once
again had to cease trading as it
plummeted to levels not seen since
before Donald Trump's inauguration
circuit-breaker event happened on Wall
Street during the president's daily
covered 19:00 press conference
coronavirus has now been confirmed in
all of America's 50 states
and the death toll has passed a hundred
siwon Kennedy is in Washington for a
shawarma tell us the latest well Jackie
in normal times we'd be talking about
the u.s. primary elections last night in
the fact it now looks almost certain
that senator Bernie Sanders is out of
the running to become the Democratic
nominee to go up against President Trump
in November but these of course are not
normal times trading on Wall Street was
Horton Hall halted rather automatically
for the fourth time today in two weeks
three of America's biggest car makers
have shut down their plants and a huge
floating Hospital is due to dock
alongside New York City Harbor in that
context even Donald Trump's trillion
dollar economic financial package has
failed to reassure the markets and he
has referred to this crisis as a war I
would like to begin by announcing some
important developments in our war
against the Chinese virus amid the
biggest crisis of his presidency and
with thousands dying the world over
Donald Trump still cannot resist
pointing the finger of blame why do you
keep calling this the Chinese virus and
when called out he doubled down it's not
racist at all no no it comes from China
that's why it comes from China I want to
be accurate that's settled as the number
of cases in the u.s. jumped to more than
six thousand residents with symptoms in
Miami used a new drive-through clinic to
get tested for the virus a temperature
check a nasal swab and an anxious wait
cases have overnight been confirmed in
all 50 US states Donald Trump today
declaring emergency powers so we will be
invoking the defense production Act to
require manufacturers to make critical
medical equipment in defense of the
nation these factories were producers of
electric refrigerators almost overnight
they became the world's largest
producers of 50 caliber machine gun not
guns and tanks from past war efforts but
ventilators and protective gear as
America braces for the viral onslaught
to come at the Canadian border there's
now a ban on non-essential travel and
even as the president trailed his
trillion dollar economic rescue package
as he was speaking the markets fell
through the floor triggering the circuit
breakers and forcing a shutdown for the
fourth time in two weeks
screams bleeding red as investors fear
to package that Lodge but the situation
was even more serious than they'd
imagined
if that medicine didn't work the
president declared a hospital ship would
dock in New York to help treat the
rising number of critically ill patients
it will be in New York City Harbor this
will be it's an extraordinary step
obviously but it will it's literally a
floating Hospital which will add
capacity and the president said that he
would dispatch that immediately from
floating hospitals to the roulette
wheels of Las Vegas spinning no more as
a month-long gambling freeze went into
effect bars movie theaters and
restaurants also forced to shutter as
the president's Treasury Secretary
warned ko bid 19 could bring levels of
unemployment not seen since the Great
Depression of the 1930s a absolute total
worst-case scenario but no we don't look
at that at all we're nowhere near it but
jobs are being lost and fast though
these scientists in California said they
were working 24 hours a day to produce a
new vaccine saying never before have
billions of people around the world
simultaneously needed access to urgent
treatment as they do now